2023 job market
and salary trends.
malaysia

randstad.com.my

specialisations
we cover.

1

3

2

4

malaysia jobs and skills outlook.

information technology.

manufacturing.

construction.

fahad naeem
country director
malaysia

malaysia job and skills outlook
Recruitment activities are at an all-time high in 2022, as
companies double down to expand their workforce with
the best talent that Malaysia has to offer.
According to the Malaysian Institute of Accountants, the
country’s gross domestic product (GDP) is expected to
grow 4% to 5% in 2023 - slightly lower than the estimates
for 2022, indicating slower economic growth next year.
This comes in the backdrop of the slowing global
economy, with many global companies cutting back on
recruitment activities in light of the recession and recordhigh inflation to focus on budgetary controls.
However, the recession could benefit Malaysia’s labour
market as companies are likely to move their business
units and headcount from Europe to Southeast Asian
countries. This would drive the creation of new jobs for
the local workforce and will also attract more top-tier
global talent to relocate to Malaysia.

2023 Job Market and Salary Trends Malaysia

Some businesses have closed or merged during the
pandemic, which has created an opportunity for new
business entrants. With more customers demanding
customised experience, we are seeing more start-ups
and small and medium-sized enterprises emerge in
technology, construction, manufacturing and shared
services. These new businesses will also create more jobs
and put more people to work.
The labour market is anticipated to improve next year,
and the Ministry of Finance forecasted the unemployment
rate to reduce from 3.8% to 4% in 2022 to 3.5% to 3.7% in
2023.
As we enter 2023, we expect this trend to continue, albeit
at a slightly slower pace and with a greater focus on
specialised roles which are outlined in our market outlook
report.
Companies will see success in their hiring strategies only
if steps are taken to manage new talent expectations and
upskill the local workforce.

randstad.com.my

talent trends to watch:
technology, manufacturing and construction
Technology will be the focal point of growth in
Malaysia in the coming years. The digital technology
industry is projected to contribute 22.6% GDP by 2025.
Correspondingly, digital job vacancies have tripled
from 19,000 to 56,000 within a year and 5G technology
developments will create 750,000 jobs by 2023 in
Malaysia alone.
These ambitious growth targets will drive demand for
talent for both IT development and enterprise. With
more jobs than the supply of talent in the market,
companies are fiercely competitive in their talent
attraction strategies. The technology sector records
some of the highest pay increments in Malaysia, which is
unsustainable in the long run, especially for early-stage
start-ups that are in dire need of talent.
Supply chain congestion has slowed manufacturing
activities in Malaysia. As it happens, manufacturers
are already actively expanding their workforce to fulfil
backlogs and new orders. As more manufacturers build
more facilities in Malaysia to meet global demands, we will
see more hiring at the senior level for plant managers and
heads of production.

managing increasing salary expectations
Over the past year, we have seen a significant change in
the support that talent expects from companies.
The rising cost of living and hiking inflation in Malaysia has
made an impact on people’s ability to finance essentials
and lifestyles. There is also pay and career stagnation over
the course of the COVID-19 pandemic when companies
froze hiring, salary increment and bonus payouts in 2020.
In response to the rising rates, companies are reviewing
and revising their salary benchmarks to retain and
attract new talent. Depending on the industries, we can
expect to see 3% to 20% salary adjustments, with highgrowth industries like technology and manufacturing
making more significant changes to their internal salary
structures.
Randstad Malaysia’s 2022 Employer Brand Research
found that 74% of local employees prioritise salary and
benefits when looking for a new employer. Companies
that have workforce expansion plans or are looking to hire
candidates equipped with niche skills would need to offer
a very competitive salary and benefits package to secure
talent.

While buyers’ interest in residential properties may have
dipped in line with rising costs, demand for commercial
developments is rising. Construction companies serving
manufacturing, data centres and energy customers will
be actively hiring new headcounts to meet deadlines.
According to Arizton, more than $2 billion will be invested
in the development of data centres across Malaysia by
2027.
After a two-year pause, government infrastructure and
transportation projects are finally resuming in Malaysia as
well, putting more people back to work.

2023 Job Market and Salary Trends Malaysia

randstad.com.my

employers urged close
the widening skills gap

pushing the boundaries of flexible work

One of the key hiring challenges that many employers
face is the lack of skilled talent in Malaysia. Employers
have high expectations of talent to be digitally adept to
deliver on projects and tasks.

There are significantly more companies that are offering
hybrid work to their employees. In fact, flexible work has
become such a common expectation in Malaysia that
job seekers do not even ask whether the company offers
hybrid work during job interviews.

This is most evident in industries and roles that are highly
technical in nature, such as engineers and developers.
Without the necessary skills and learning opportunities,
they would not be able to work on more complex projects
that would help them make progress in their careers.

To compensate for the inability to work remotely,
companies in manufacturing and construction are offering
flex benefits, overtime pay and extra allowances to
motivate their employees and promote better work-life
balance.

However, there is a lack of upskilling programmes that are
offered to employees and general unpreparedness among
fresh graduates when they enter the workforce.

In our Talent Expectations survey, 60% of employees
in Malaysia said working remotely can help them lead
a balanced life. When asked how they define work-life
balance, 28% of respondents said that it is about having
the flexibility to work anytime and anywhere they want as
long as they can meet work deadlines.

Randstad’s Workmonitor survey revealed that 85% of
Malaysians said that it is important for employers to
offer learning and development training programmes,
and 74% will stay with their current employers if
upskilling opportunities are offered to them. Only 36% of
respondents said that they received new training in the
past year.
The same survey highlighted that 61% of employees in
Malaysia want to develop their technical skills so that they
can be more capable and productive.
It is clear that employees are aware of their skills gap
and are motivated to upskill. To uplift the total Malaysian
workforce, employers need to invest in upskilling their
workforce. It is the employer’s responsibility to work
with experts or improve the capabilities of their internal
learning and development team to upskill their employees
through relevant and useful training courses.
Companies should also work with schools to offer more
impactful internship programmes. These programmes are
a great channel for companies to screen and hire potential
employees. Companies can create opportunities to let
undergraduate students work on key projects to evaluate
their skills and growth potential and convert them into fulltime employees if they meet the business expectations.

2023 Job Market and Salary Trends Malaysia

This degree of flexibility can result in greater autonomy
and productivity as employees get to make their own
decisions about when, where and how they choose to
complete their work.
In the next year, we can expect companies to offer global
programmes to allow their employees to work remotely
from another country while on holiday. We may also see
some companies pilot shorter work weeks to improve
their employees’ work-life balance. This change will also
shift measurements from monitoring outputs instead of
the number of working hours, which would focus more on
tracking the employee’s performance.

be agile and get used to change
Change is crucial to thriving in Asia’s rapidly evolving
business landscape. With people serving as the backbone
of any organisation’s success, it is important that business
leaders learn to address employee expectations for more
effective talent attraction and management efforts.
The investment in employer branding will prove fruitful in
the end when companies see employees feeling happier
and becoming more productive. Organisations will
naturally be able to attract top talent because they want to
not just work for you, but also stay with you for as long as
possible.

randstad.com.my

information technology.
The ever-changing global economy and technology’s
rapid advancement continue to drive Malaysia’s proactive
and innovative approach towards the digital economy. A
joint report from Meta and Bain & Company forecasted
Malaysia to have the highest proportion of digital
consumers in the region at 99%.
Correspondingly, government initiatives such as the
Malaysia Digital Economy Blueprint (MyDIGITAL) and the
National Fourth Industrial Revolution (4IR) Policy push for
more effective cybersecurity practices and the adoption
of advanced technologies.
From consumer banking to logistics, every industry and
consumer in Malaysia interact with technology every
day. Companies are constantly investing to improve their
technology usability and security to provide a better
experience for their customers, which would pave the
way for new entrants and job creation in development and
enterprise technologies.

2023 Job Market and Salary Trends Malaysia

randstad.com.my

2023 information technology trends.
Vibrant developments in cloud computing, cybersecurity,
artificial intelligence, Internet of Things (IoT), virtual reality
(VR) and blockchain will continue in 2023.
Most companies, even start-ups, are moving towards
Web3 technologies. As the third iteration of the World
Wide Web, Web3 envisions a decentralised and open Web
that integrates blockchain technologies and token-based
economics.
In response to the recent industry shake-ups led by
the collapse of high-profile cryptocurrencies and
retrenchments, companies venturing into Web3 will adopt
a sharper and more prudent growth and hiring strategy.
Cost optimisation, productivity and lead time on returns
would also drive the majority of business decisions next
year.
The transportation, manufacturing, and supply chain
industries will benefit from automation. In contrast, the
banking, financial services and insurance sectors are in a
constant state of transformation to keep up with evolving
customer and business demands.
5G will drive talent hiring
The highly anticipated 5G rollout in Malaysia is underway,
and the developments will further advance web evolutions
and create an estimated 39,000 value-add jobs.

data centre developments
Owing to its stable network connectivity and high internet
penetration, Malaysia remains a preferred data centre
location in Southeast Asia, next only to Singapore and
Indonesia.
Between 2022 and 2027, MNCs will invest more than US$2
billion to develop Malaysia-based data centres, to provide
improved cloud computing services to the region as more
businesses will rely on cloud solutions as they undergo
further digital transformation.
Cyberjaya is at the heart of this development, with 14 of
its data centre facilities contributing 75% of the existing
capacity in Malaysia. In the coming years, data centre
supply will see a three-fold increase from another 15
announced and under-construction projects with
co-location operators.
Highly regulated and restricted industries, such as
banking, are ramping up data centre development and
capabilities because of their high computing, processing,
and security requirements.
Additionally, rapid advancements in cloud technology
used across other industries means that operators must
constantly upgrade existing data centres to meet business
and customers’ needs.

Malaysia’s 5G implementation, led by Digital Nasional
Berhad (DNB), will provide an enabling environment to
grow the local digital economy. With the nation’s major
mobile carriers on board, we anticipate a boost in talent
and business demands to test out the full capabilities of
the country’s 5G infrastructure.
Already, companies are driving up the demand for
5G-specific technical professionals like network and
infrastructure project managers in manufacturing,
transportation, finance, and retail.

2023 Job Market and Salary Trends Malaysia

randstad.com.my

course corrections within the technology space

despite shake-ups, all is not lost

Tech giants and unicorns have announced retrenchments
and hiring freezes towards the second half of 2022.
Some companies have attributed recent restructuring
to a poorer economic outlook as well as over-hiring and
inflated wages, which had diluted overall profitability and
productivity.

On a more positive note, these business restructurings
have created ‘market downtime’ that allow tech talent
to pursue new careers and projects to expand their
portfolios and acquire new skills. Some software
developers and web designers are freelancing for smaller
projects or creating their own, which would further hone
their skills and make them more attractive to employers.

Big tech business Meta let go of more than 11,000
employees, or about 13% of its workforce, to become a
leaner and more efficient company.
Global e-commerce giant Amazon is also set to
‘consolidate some teams and programmes’ under its
devices, retail, and human resources divisions, leading to
approximately 10,000 job cuts.
In Southeast Asia, major e-commerce player Shopee
made the news when it slashed jobs in Malaysia and three
other countries to optimise operations and achieve selfsufficiency.
These changes can be seen as a reflection of how
business demands have changed over the course of the
pandemic. Now that the pandemic is behind us, business
leaders are course correcting their growth plans and
focussing their resources on products and solutions that
would define them as a company as well as drive higher
returns. Resource optimisation would be a key priority
as employers evaluate skills requirements much more
closely.

This may lead to an ‘open source’ job market, where
technical employers evaluate projects in the marketplace
to find their next hire instead of going through the normal
interview process.
Hiring trends are often cyclical and seasonal and shall
pass. Based on what we have observed over the years,
these hiring trends—layoffs and hiring freezes—are
part of the cycle that tests a company’s resilience and
adaptability.
Businesses prepared for radical changes will be the first
to find opportunities in obstacles. Start-ups developed
ride-hailing services and super apps because of changing
customer behaviours and demands. This has motivated
other companies, like those in financial and travel
services, to expand their digital and mobile offerings.
To adapt to these new realities, employers must develop
smart hiring strategies to ensure they have the best
people, skills, and expertise capable of driving change.

The market should expect a slowdown in hiring activities
in the first half of 2023, as companies focus their hiring
strategies for more highly skilled technologists to gain
a stronger advantage and competition in the market.
Employers will also have a greater focus on workforce
retention to continue service delivery.
Tech professionals working on older technology, legacy
systems or projects that are at risk of being phased out
in the face of Web3 and 5G developments, will need to
find internal upskilling and mobility opportunities to retain
their job security.

2023 Job Market and Salary Trends Malaysia

randstad.com.my

the race for IT talent
As it is, there is a stark skills gap within the technology
industry.
Countries and companies are strategising to address this
global tech labour shortage. For example, Singapore,
Thailand, and Dubai have introduced new work visas
to attract in-demand senior technologists. Companies
worldwide are also raising their remuneration packages to
appeal to hard-to-find IT talent.
With all these compelling packages, it is no surprise tech
professionals in Malaysia look elsewhere for opportunities.
Relocating to another country is not just about working in
a job with higher pay, but also living in a place that offers
higher standards of living, better foreign exchange rates
and more career growth opportunities.
One suggestion to counter this talent drain is to position
Malaysia as the destination to work and live in Southeast
Asia.
The digital nomad pass is one such initiative designed by
the government to attract digital professionals from all
over the world. Issued by the Malaysia Digital Economy
Corporation (MDEC), the pass lets inbound digital
nomads, or remote workers in the digital economy space,
enjoy the agency’s curated co-working facilities and
services.

2023 Job Market and Salary Trends Malaysia

Another more impactful and comprehensive strategy
that companies can implement to close the skills gap in
Malaysia is to upskill the existing workforce.
Employers should actively identify skills gaps that stop
the company from meeting its goals, and then evaluate
the capabilities of its current workforce to develop
job transformation roadmaps to resolve deep-seated
workforce competency issues.
For 2023, in-demand development and enterprise IT jobs
include:
•

software engineers

•

data engineers

•

data scientists

•

AI agents

•

cloud engineers

•

DevOps engineers

•

cybersecurity specialists

•

IoT consultants

randstad.com.my

2023 talent expectations.
With fears of a recession in 2023, the uncertain economic
outlook will pull job candidates into opposite extremes:
some will actively look for jobs, while others may take
a more cautious approach when considering a career
switch.
Conservative candidates are careful about where they
want to move next. While they do not necessarily want to
switch jobs, they will be open to new opportunities that
can boost their careers.
On the other hand, employees in the throes of
retrenchment and layoffs are likely to find employers that
can offer better job and income security.
promote total compensation and benefits package
to attract talent
Candidates are expecting to receive a 20% to 30% salary
increase when they switch employers in 2023. Companies
that offer less than a 20% pay increment will likely face
challenges in attracting talent.
Employers with a smaller hiring budget next year would
need to be more creative in their total remuneration
package to stay competitive in a talent-short recruitment
market.

promote training and development opportunities
As technology evolves, continuous and regular upskilling
will be crucial to the organisation’s success.
Software engineers will take on more projects to deepen
their Web3 capabilities and cybersecurity professionals
will build customised processes to strengthen overall data
protection for the company. These on-the-job exposures
train employees to become more productive and equip
them with skills to drive innovation.
Tech job seekers often expect a clear work plan for
their first six to 12 months to understand their learning
opportunities and career progressions. It also helps create
a sense of job security for the candidate, knowing that
they will be working on projects that contribute to the
company’s growth.
Senior-level candidates will want to know the challenges
that they are expected to tackle in their first few weeks,
and the fresh strategies they would need to develop to
set the company in the right direction. On the other hand,
managers want to know how they can grow their team’s
capabilities and resources within the first year.

Project-based allowances and bonuses for performance
and project completion can help attract talent. Higher
commission on target earnings for those in sales positions
can also be an attractive financial reward that will appeal
to job seekers.

Despite these high expectations, most companies’
existing corporate onboarding programmes still leave
much to be desired for tech talent. Sometimes, employers
just provide a folder or mandatory online training
programmes and expect trainees to learn independently,
which is not the kind of training experience people expect
to receive.

Other financial benefits that are particularly useful
to attract talent and improve the overall employee
experience include fuel or transport allowances, food
subsidies and unlimited annual leave. However, if there
is one benefit that we know employees prioritise, it is
flexible working arrangement.

Many IT professionals prefer to receive personalised or
customised training, either one-on-one or classroomstyle training so that they can ask questions and establish
relationships within the organisation. They also value
mentorship opportunities that can help improve their soft
skills, such as time and stakeholder management.

Respondents in the Randstad’s Reimagine Work white
paper said that work-life balance stems from having better
control over their work and personal time. Without the
commute, employees can exercise more flexibility in their
lives while working from home, helping them live a betterbalanced lifestyle.

2023 Job Market and Salary Trends Malaysia

randstad.com.my

promote job responsibilities and organisational culture

win with employer branding

Despite the robust start-up scene in Malaysia, there is
still a preference to work for larger companies. Many
candidates prefer working for a familiar brand or an
established company with a larger presence as they
associate those businesses with more stability and job
security, which may not be necessarily true.

Amid uncertainties in the tech space in the early half of
2023, we advise employers to actively strengthen and
promote their branding to stand out in a sea of companies
vying for the same small talent pool.

Recent layoffs from tech giants indicate that even some of
the biggest companies can make mistakes while trying to
balance workforce planning and achieving profitability.

The company website serves as a ‘storefront’ to attract
and engage with new talent. Enhancing your digital
capabilities like search engine optimisation, search engine
marketing, content marketing and talent engagement
showcases your company’s ability and attracts talent who
wants to work for you.

We actively educate job searchers on how company sizes
and maturity do not necessarily correlate with job and
income stability, especially since people hardly work with
only one employer throughout their whole work life.
Instead, we encourage talent to interview with companies
that may be lesser known but offer promising career
growth opportunities and a pleasant work environment.
They will have the opportunity to acquire new skills and
deepen their capabilities, which would make them more
attractive talent to employers.
It is hence critical for small-and-medium enterprises and
start-ups to share more information about what it is like
to work in the company to help create clarity on how
the company can support their growth in a supportive
environment.

jonathan sia

associate director
software, digital &
emerging technology

ashraf raffiudin

senior recruitment
manager
enterprise technology

One of the ways that employers can do that is to invite
the job applicant to meet with the rest of the employees
during the final round of interview. This interaction helps
them understand the synergy within the team as well as
evaluate whether the environment fits them.

2023 Job Market and Salary Trends Malaysia

randstad.com.my

salary snapshot
enterprise.
roles.

years of
experience

low

medium

high

junior cloud DevOps

<4

4,000

6,000

8,000

senior cloud DevOps

4-8

8,000

12,000

15,000

principal / lead architect

8 - 12

15,000

20,000

25,000

head of cloud architecture

12 - 25

25,000

32,000

40,000

cloud DevOps (AWS, GCP, azure)

infrastructure (system, network, windows, linux, data centre)				
junior infrastructure engineer

<4

3,000

5,000

7,000

middle - senior infrastructure engineer

4-8

7,000

10,000

12,000

lead / architect infrastructure engineer

8 - 12

12,000

18,000

25,000

head of infrastructure

12 - 25

20,000

30,000

40,000

junior ERP (consultant / support admin)

<5

4,000

7,500

10,000

middle - senior ERP (consultant / support admin)

5 - 15

12,000

20,000

25,000

manager / lead ERP consultant

15 - 25

20,000

28,000

35,000

junior security engineer

<5

3,000

5,500

8,000

senior security engineer

5 - 15

8,000

16,000

25,000

cybersecurity consultant / manager

5 - 15

8,000

16,000

25,000

senior manager - governance, risk & compliance

10 - 25

15,000

32,000

50,000

ERP (SAP, oracle, MS dynamics, workday, salesforce, CRM)

cybersecurity (SOC, IAM)

Figures are in MYR and based on a basic monthly salary of a permanent role (not including AWS or fixed/variable bonus)

2023 Job Market and Salary Trends Malaysia

randstad.com.my

salary snapshot
enterprise.
roles.

years of
experience

low

medium

high

junior project analysts / coordinators

<3

3,000

4,000

5,000

business analysts / project managers

3-7

5,000

9,000

12,000

senior BA / head of project management /
project director

7 - 25

12,000

24,000

35,000

technical PM / agile coach / scrum master

8 - 25

12,000

24,000

35,000

junior executive

<3

3,000

4,000

5,000

senior executive / account manager

3-8

5,000

10,000

15,000

head of (pre)sales / sales director

8 - 25

15,000

50,000

100,000

cloud DevOps (AWS, GCP, azure)

product sales & business development

Figures are in MYR and based on a basic monthly salary of a permanent role (not including AWS or fixed/variable bonus)

2023 Job Market and Salary Trends Malaysia

randstad.com.my

salary snapshot
development.
roles.

years of
experience

low

medium

high

software engineer
(C#.Net, JavaScript, Java, Golang)

1-2

2,800 - 3,000

3,000 - 3,500

5,000 - 6,000

middle-level software engineer
(C#.Net, JavaScript, Java, Golang)

2-5

4,000 - 5,000

6,000 - 7,000

7,000 - 10,000

senior-level software engineer
(C#.Net, JavaScript, Java, Golang)

>5

7,000 - 8,000

8,000 - 10,000

10,000 - 16,000

solution architect
(C#.Net, JavaScript, Java, Golang)

>8

12,000 - 14,000

14,000 - 16,000

16,000 - 21,000

tech lead
(C#.Net, JavaScript, Java, Golang)

>8

13,000 - 14,000

14,000 - 16,000

16,000 - 21,000

software tester
(manual)

1-3

3,000 - 4,000

4,000 - 5,000

5,000 - 5,500

middle - senior software tester
(manual)

>3

5,000 - 6,000

6,000 - 8,000

8,000 - 12,000

software tester
(automation)

1-3

4,000 - 5,000

5,000 - 6,000

6,000 - 7,000

middle - senior software tester
(automation)

>3

7,000 - 9,000

9,000 - 11,000

11,000 - 14,000

data engineer

1-3

3,000 - 4,500

4,500 - 6,500

7,000 - 8,000

middle - senior data engineer

3-5

6,500 - 7,500

7,500 - 9,000

9,000 - 13,000

data architect

>5

10,000 - 13,000

13,000 - 15,000

15,000 - 20,000

mobile developer
(hybrid/native)

3-7

4,000 - 6,000

6,000 - 7,000

7,000 - 10,000

mobile lead

>5

10,000 - 12,000

12,000 - 14,000

14,000 - 18,000

UI/UX designer

3-5

6,000 - 8,000

8,000 - 9,000

9,000 - 12,000

product manager

3-5

6,000 - 8,000

8,000 - 9,000

9,000 - 12,000

senior product lead

>5

9,000 - 12,000

12,000 - 15,000

15,000 - 20,000

Figures are in MYR and based on a basic monthly salary of a permanent role (not including AWS or fixed/variable bonus)

2023 Job Market and Salary Trends Malaysia

randstad.com.my

sruthi nambiar
associate director
sales & marketing
engineering and supply chain

manufacturing.
Port congestion, delayed deliveries and rising costs are
issues that have plagued total manufacturing output
in 2022. We expect global supply chain disruption to
continue well into the first half of 2023, with rising costs
remaining a major concern for many organisations.
To resolve these challenges, we see companies stepping
up to focus on port operations, warehouse management
solutions, and even developing new air freight solutions.
But these are just quick fixes, and the industry needs to
take a more systematic approach that can weather future
unexpected challenges.
One of the best ways to mitigate these issues is to
prioritise domestic suppliers over imports. This creates
new business and growth opportunities for local
companies. Not only are local companies able to fulfil
more orders, but they can also integrate predictive
analytics and inventory management solutions to digitise
their processes as well as reduce downtime and optimise
costs.

2023 Job Market and Salary Trends Malaysia

This approach requires business leaders to embrace
digital and technological integrations. Slow digitalisation
in the manufacturing sector has impacted talent attraction
and retention, as people actively seek opportunities to
improve their productivity and learn new skills so that they
can take up high-value jobs in the future.
Despite these prevailing challenges, Malaysia maintains
confidence in the manufacturing sector with support from
its pro-business policies that makes it easy for foreign
MNCs and local companies to invest and expand.
As more businesses leverage these initiatives, more highvalue jobs will be created, intensifying the competition for
skilled talent.

randstad.com.my

growth in key areas in manufacturing.
automotive, data storage and wireless solutions
driving demand for semiconductors
There is an easing demand for consumer electronics
globally. According to research from S&P Global, the
semiconductor cycle is headed for a downturn due to
falling demand. Supply shortages and price pressure
indicators continue to ‘squeeze profitability’ for
companies reliant on semiconductors.
It’s a sentiment echoed by the Malaysia Semiconductor
Industry Association (MSIA), which expects a decline
in 2023 because of consumer-centric end-market
weaknesses, particularly for personal computers (PCs)
and smartphones. In the same vein, HP has announced
that the company will cut up to 6,000 jobs globally over
the next three years as demand for PCs wanes.
Despite these curveballs, Malaysia remains a major
player, cornering 13% market share in global chip testing
and assembly. Over the past year, a total of RM52 billion
in semiconductor investments have been secured,
potentially creating 11,000 jobs in the sector.
Rising industries that need a steady supply of chips are
keeping demand strong. Where semiconductors are
concerned, the automotive, data storage, and wireless
sectors will drive at least 70% of the manufacturing
industry.
An earlier McKinsey report has projected that these
three sectors will spur about 70% of growth in the global
semiconductor market. The automotive industry, in
particular, has been singled out as the strongest-growing
segment, owing to the growth in autonomous driving and
e-mobility.
sustained interest in chemical activities
‘Chemicals and chemical products’ is one of the six main
new growth areas that the government has identified to
accelerate Malaysia’s transformation into a high-income
nation. The chemical industry makes up 10.5% of the local
manufacturing sector and contributed 2.6% to Malaysia’s
gross domestic product (GDP) in 2021, equivalent to
RM35.5 billion.

Prices for commodities and specialty chemicals will
remain robust throughout the year, driven by strong
market interests. New and emerging products such as
specialty chemicals, green chemicals, and specialised
plastics will expand the industry further.
the rise of high-tech parks
The Malaysian Government has implemented a variety
of incentives to boost Industry 4.0, including developing
high-tech parks to attract high-value investments and
drive innovation locally.
Also known as industrial or technology parks, hightech parks catalyse technological advancements
and operational excellence for smart manufacturing.
Multinational and small-and-medium manufacturing
enterprises are encouraged to congregate in these
hubs to collaborate and share best practices on modern
technologies, such as artificial intelligence and data
analytics.
A prime example is Kulim Hi-Tech Park (KHTP), Malaysia’s
first fully integrated high-tech park. As of writing, KHTP
has 38 industrial tenants employing a 34,000-strong
workforce, bringing RM124.9 billion in total investments.
The SME Park within KHTP is a ‘plug-and-play’ facility
where firms can tap on to lower costs and reduce
turnaround time to manufacture goods and fulfil requests,
creating more opportunities for SMEs to expand their
business with ease.
While KHTP currently holds the title of Malaysia’s premier
high-tech park, more industrial and technology parks
are under development to drive high-quality product
innovation and production.
High-tech parks can uplift the industry, as it creates a
better understanding of how to use technology as an
enabler to drive innovation. Smaller manufacturers can
experiment and learn from the best players, which would
further build their confidence to explore new possibilities
with technology. This exposure and willingness to move
with the times can help improve the sector’s perspective
to attract more talent.

Outlined in the 2023 Budget, the government will allocate
at least RM10 billion in funding to benefit the oil and gas,
services, and equipment (OGSE) industry, with Pengerang
given special status and incentives for its chemical and
petrochemical activities. This will alleviate businesses’
cost pressures that were created by high inflation and oil
price volatility.

2023 Job Market and Salary Trends Malaysia

randstad.com.my

intense competition among medical device manufacturers

give candidates a chance

Another one of the six main new growth areas is the
healthcare and pharmaceutical industry. The COVID-19
pandemic has strengthened domestic capacity building,
reducing the country’s reliance on pharmaceutical
product and medical device imports.

Considering the labour shortage, companies should
review their candidate evaluation and selection processes
in securing high-potential talent.

We also expect to see the manufacturing of medical
devices and disposables increase by 10% to 15%
compared to pre-pandemic levels, driven by an ageing
population and a stronger desire for better health
outcomes.

the race for new talent
The local workforce still faces significant skill gaps to
keep up with business requirements and technological
developments.

Hiring someone with good learning potential but who
may not necessarily check all the boxes is better than
leaving the seat empty. Hiring managers should also work
with their HR colleagues to develop a comprehensive
onboarding programme, to bring new hires up to speed as
well as deepen their capabilities along the way.
This approach establishes a positive impression in the
employee’s mind and can help strengthen your employer
branding. Employees who enjoy learning and working with
their bosses are likely to share their experiences with their
peers and networks through word-of-mouth, giving the
employer a long-lasting brand presence.

The national talent gap is, arguably, one of the biggest
challenges that Malaysia will face in 2023. Companies in
different sectors struggle to recruit and retain employees,
with about 80% of employers we work with reporting
talent and skills shortages as their top recruitment
challenge.

new visa schemes will attract more global talent
and investment

start them young

The Malaysia Premium Visa Programme is expected to
attract at least 1,000 business owners in its first year. ‘The
premium visa programme will spur economic growth,
generate income, and open more job opportunities. We
are confident it will attract global businessmen to not
just reside in Malaysia, but to also invest and run their
businesses here,’ said Minister of Home Affairs Datuk Seri
Hamzah Zainudin in a press conference.

To ensure a steady pipeline of skilled talent to sustain our
growth in Malaysia, we encourage employers to partner
with schools to expose students to career opportunities
in manufacturing as early as possible. This would help
garner more interest within the younger population
and encourage them to enrol in manufacturing-related
programmes as they grow older.
Internship programmes should also focus around
developing unconventional technical skills among the
youths. They should be given the opportunity to apply
their knowledge during vocational training so that they
can connect the dots between their curriculums and the
world of work. Internship programmes also serve as an
effective recruitment channel for employers to quickly
secure high-quality talent before they graduate.
Partnering with schools also strengthens organisations’
employer brand and helps increase awareness among
future job seekers about the types of training and
development opportunities the company offers.

2023 Job Market and Salary Trends Malaysia

To address the acute local talent shortage, Malaysia seeks
to attract more foreign investments and global talent with
its new visa schemes.

Issued by the Malaysia Digital Economy Corporation
(MDEC), the digital nomad pass will allow remote workers
worldwide to work, live, and travel in Malaysia. This would
help attract global talent to Malaysia and encourage them
to explore the local growth opportunities that companies
could offer.
These new initiatives also will help facilitate knowledge
transfer and spur economic growth. However, it is critical
to keep an open mind. To continue positioning Malaysia
as the business destination of choice, there must be
actionable plans to integrate the foreign companies
and talent into local communities while respecting local
cultural nuances.

randstad.com.my

in-demand roles in manufacturing
On the technical side, there will be higher demand
for talent supporting digitalisation and automation
advancements of Industry 4.0:

On the commercial front, there will be greater focus
on these key digital occupations to drive business-toconsumer (B2C) engagement and growth:

•

automation engineers

•

digital marketing managers

•

service engineers

•

digital content strategists

•

process engineers

•

SEO specialists

•

real-time data analysts

•

media planners

•

data modellers

•

social media managers

•

sourcing analysts

•

preventive maintenance managers

•

demand planning managers

•

sourcing strategists

•

sourcing specialists

•

logistics managers with Halal certification

2023 Job Market and Salary Trends Malaysia

randstad.com.my

2023 talent expectations.
Despite the impending global recession in 2023, people
remain open to switching employers. The best strategy for
any company is to engage and attract talent with the right
intention and mindset.

learning and development

Talent who presents clear and thought-out reasons on
why they want to change employers are the ones who
know for certain what they want and desire in their next
roles.

Considering the rapid digitalisation in Industry 4.0,
providing learning and development opportunities will
benefit the employer as well. Employees who have access
to learning programmes to upskill are more productive
and ready to take up new responsibilities and roles within
the organisation.

For example, they may look for opportunities to work on
new projects and learn from other experts if they face
career stagnation. Some might also pursue a role to
acquire a specific skill they feel lacking.
Beyond asking talent about their past experiences and
what they can bring to the table, employers and hiring
managers should also find out what candidates wish to
learn in the new job to understand their intentions and
motivators to change careers.
Employers would have a higher chance of securing the
talent if they are confident of meeting their career goals.
It would also help companies create better learning
experiences for their employees as they look to develop
their skills and competencies further.
compensation and benefits
According to the Randstad Employer Brand Research
outlined in our Reimagine Work white paper, salary
and benefits are among the top considerations for job
switchers in Malaysia. In 2023, talent in the manufacturing
sector expects a 10% to 15% salary increase when they
switch employers.
In a candidate-short market where job seekers hold the
power to negotiate, employers must be prepared to meet
new salary expectations.

Our research consistently highlights the gap between
learning and development expectations and the reality.

Upskilling is not a one-size-fits-all solution, as varying
employee demographics have distinct learning needs.
Instead of putting everyone through the same training
roadmap, companies have to provide a more customised
learning experience to ensure equitable growth within the
company.
Besides internal training, employers can also extend their
learning and development offerings through partnerships
with universities and other educational institutions.
This may include employees’ leadership, management,
strategy development and design thinking skills.
These programmes bring together people from different
industries and organisations, allowing your employees
to grow their network and learn best practices from
their peers. These training opportunities also help drive
employee productivity as they encourage workers to take
an outside-in approach to problem-solving and improving
internal processes.
Alternatively, companies can work with third-party
providers like Randstad Risesmart for customised, costeffective training and work-life coaching programmes to
build an engaged and high-performing workforce.

Aside from a competitive salary, employers should
consider a more comprehensive remuneration package
that includes other meaningful benefits and incentives,
which do not necessarily have to be monetary. Flexible
working arrangements, health and wellness benefits, and
a robust career progression plan could add value to the
compensation package beyond salary.

2023 Job Market and Salary Trends Malaysia

randstad.com.my

win with employer branding

work on feedback

Companies need a proper employer brand marketing
strategy to attract and retain the right employees. Here
are some tips to improve your employer branding in 2023.

When conducting employee surveys, it is important to
design a feedback loop so that employees feel heard.
Business and HR leaders should always communicate the
improvements they are acting on based on the feedback
so that employees understand the value of participating in
employee surveys.

know what skills and personality attributes thrive
in your organisation
It is critical to ensure that the talent can fill the skills
gap and work well with others. To attract the right
candidate, clearly define the skills you need in your job
advertisements, as well as ask interview questions about
their personality traits to evaluate if they would integrate
well in your organisation.

Having a formal feedback platform also helps grow your
employer brand because it lets employees know that you
care enough to help make things better for them so that
they can focus on delivering quality work.

improve the interview process
Whether you are hiring them or not, candidates expect a
positive experience from the moment they submit their
job application.
Prepare your hiring managers to share information
about the company’s business goals, organisation and
team culture as well as job responsibilities. Sharing
such information during the interview helps manage
expectations and makes candidates feel that the company
is organised.
Even if you do not have the intention to hire them, make
sure you reply to them with feedback or a legitimate
reason why they were not considered for the role.
Maintaining these relationships would motivate them to
return to the company once they are more prepared to
meet your expectations or refine their job search strategy
for an employer that suits them better.

2023 Job Market and Salary Trends Malaysia

randstad.com.my

salary snapshot
technical roles.
roles.

years of
experience

low

medium

high

sourcing analyst

4-8

5,000

7,500

10,000

buyer

4-8

5,000

7,000

9,000

consumer insights manager

4 - 10

7,000

12,000

18,000

warehouse & logistics manager

10 - 15

8,000

12,000

17,000

procurement manager

10 - 15

9,000

13,000

18,000

planning manager - demand / supply

10 - 15

11,000

13,500

16,500

supply chain manager

10 - 15

12,000

15,000

18,000

automation / electrical engineer

5 - 10

5,000

8,000

12,000

regulatory affairs manager

4-8

7,000

13,000

18,000

service engineer

2-5

4,800

7,000

12,000

project manager

6 - 12

9,000

14,000

21,000

HSE manager

10 - 15

7,000

12,000

18,000

continuous improvement manager

10 - 15

10,000

14,000

22,000

R&D manager

7 - 12

9,000

11,000

15,000

head of engineering / maintenance

10 - 15

12,000

16,000

21,000

quality manager

10 - 15

8,000

13,000

18,000

production manager

10 - 15

8,000

11,000

15,000

plant manager / operations manager

12 - 20

14,500

24,500

32,000

general manager / operations director

18 - 25

20,000

38,000

40,000

chief executive officer / managing director

20 - 25

30,000

55,000

85,000

Figures are in MYR and based on a basic monthly salary of a permanent role (not including AWS or fixed/variable bonus)

2023 Job Market and Salary Trends Malaysia

randstad.com.my

salary snapshot
commercial roles.
roles.

years of
experience

low

medium

high

clinical application specialist

2-6

4,000

6,300

8,000

key account manager

4-8

8,000

10,000

13,000

performance marketing manager

4-9

7,000

11,000

14,000

consumer insights manager

4 - 10

8,000

14,000

18,000

trade marketing manager

6 - 10

9,000

13,000

17,000

product sales representative / specialist

1-5

3,300

6,800

11,000

head of marketing

12 - 25

18,000

27,000

36,000

brand manager

5-8

8,000

11,000

14,000

content specialist / content writer

1-5

3,200

5,800

9,000

ecommerce manager

5 - 15

11,000

17,000

23,000

area sales manager

5-7

7,000

9,000

12,000

business development manager

3-8

6,000

11,000

18,000

SEO specialist

3-5

3,800

5,000

7,800

digital marketing manager

4 - 12

9,000

14,000

23,000

account manager (advertising)

2-4

5,000

8,000

12,000

regional sales manager (consumer)

6- 12

12,000

15,000

17,000

national sales manager

8 - 10

15,000

18,000

22,000

head of sales

9 - 18

20,000

27,000

38,000

Figures are in MYR and based on a basic monthly salary of a permanent role (not including AWS or fixed/variable bonus)

2023 Job Market and Salary Trends Malaysia

randstad.com.my

pep chia
sruthi nambiar
associate director
associate director
construction, property
sales & marketing
& engineering
engineering and supply chain

construction.
The new announcements and continuations of domestic
infrastructure developments, particularly in the railway
industry, are poised to boost Malaysia’s economy.
The Mass Rapid Transit 3 (MRT3) Circle Line, the final
piece to complete Kuala Lumpur’s urban rail network, will
be fully operational by 2030. Aside from being a railway
project, the MRT3 Circle Line is a high-impact project that
is designed to drive economic growth and productivity,
bringing jobs closer to the people, and vice versa.
Similar high-impact railway projects include the Light
Rail Transit Line 3 (LRT3), which will connect two million
people between Bandar Utama and Klang by 2024,
extending rail connectivity to the Western Corridor of
Greater Kuala Lumpur and Klang Valley.
On the other hand, the East Coast Rail Link (ECRL) project
will connect Kota Bharu in Kelantan to Port Klang in
Selangor, linking the East and West Coasts of Peninsular
Malaysia. Linking the north and south of Malaysia’s
Peninsula will be the Gemas-Johor Bahru (Gemas-JB)
double-track electric rail line, slated to be completed in
2023.

2023 Job Market and Salary Trends Malaysia

randstad.com.my

foreign investments boost economic growth

lack of talent slows down construction

With all these infrastructure developments in progress,
Malaysia is well-positioned to be an attractive destination
for foreign direct investments (FDI), further propelling the
country’s economic growth.

Despite these opportunities, the lack of talent has slowed
down the expected progress in the construction sector.
According to Master Builders Association Malaysia
(MBAM), the construction industry currently faces a
shortage of 550,000 workers.

In the first half of 2022, Malaysia attracted RM123.3
billion of approved investments in the manufacturing,
services and primary sectors. An increasing number
of multinational corporations (MNCs), such as Intel
and Microsoft, are looking to expand their presence in
Malaysia.
At 70.9% and equivalent to RM87.4 billion, FDIs were the
major contributors to the total approved investments. The
approved investments for the first half of 2022 alone can
generate up to 57,770 new jobs in the country.
The strategic and focused approach to trade and
investment missions (TIM) aims to capture funds in high
technology, innovation, and research-driven industries,
which will complement and strengthen the country’s
industrial ecosystem.
These investments and pro-business policies have
attracted MNCs to construct data centres and
manufacturing plans in Malaysia, particularly megafactories for semiconductors and electric vehicles (EV).
It is pivotal for the construction industry to meet these
development demands so Malaysia can, in turn, fulfil its
obligations to investors and businesses.

2023 Job Market and Salary Trends Malaysia

This continued labour shortage stifles the construction
sector’s recovery, leading to many firms investing heavily
in advanced technologies to automate or replace some of
the roles that are no longer in demand.
However, even as robotics and analytical software
drive greater efficiencies, the talent pool is still not
fully equipped with the right skills to use these new
technologies.
While it may seem like a chicken-and-egg situation of
whether companies should invest in digital transformation
or workforce development first, the short answer is that
both should happen simultaneously.
Companies that have invested in new software and
hardware should use the opportunity to create training
programmes for their workforce through on-the-job and
classroom training. Employees also transition to unlearn
and relearn skills during this period as they change their
mindset and learn new ways to be more productive,
creative and innovative.
Digital-savvy companies are more likely to spark interest
among the younger generations of workers, who often
look for future-forward and innovative employers to work
for.

randstad.com.my

2023 construction trends.
commercial property development
offices
Due to the US dollar’s strength against the Malaysian
ringgit, more foreign companies are either moving their
offices or expanding their operations in Malaysia.

Many companies have also been rethinking their future
work flexibility strategy and are looking to move to
co-working spaces. Many co-working companies are
investing in prime office locations to attract start-ups and
small firms that are looking to conduct their businesses
more flexibly.
data centres
Malaysia is a preferred data centre location in Southeast
Asia, after Singapore and Indonesia, attributed to its solid
network connectivity and high internet penetration rate.
Between 2022 and 2027, MNCs will invest more than US$2
billion in developing data centres across the country.
Cyberjaya remains the nexus for data centre development,
with 14 facilities supporting 75% of the existing capacity
in Malaysia. Other hotspots for data centre development
include Kuala Lumpur, Johor, Shah Alam and Penang.
manufacturing plants
Malaysia, known as Southeast Asia’s semiconductor
hub, is an attractive location for manufacturing plant
development. Electric vehicle (EV) producers continue
to build and develop a robust domestic EV assembly
industry.
Developing these new and technologically advanced
manufacturing plants will drive innovation within the
construction and property industry, requiring more highly
skilled workers.
shopping malls
The COVID-19 pandemic stalled the opening of some new
shopping malls. Despite the current lack of property and
leasing management talent, we can still expect a rise in
the number of new shopping malls as they serve as prime
spaces where people congregate to shop and dine.
residential property development
With inflation and rising urban populations, the biggest
discussion around the world is whether people can still
afford to own homes amid rising prices. In Malaysia, it has
always been important to own a house—it is not just a roof
over your head; it is also an indicator of personal success
and achievement.

2023 Job Market and Salary Trends Malaysia

New government-announced residential developments
near railway stations attract potential homebuyers who
want easy access to shopping malls and the office, an
alternative to being stuck in the city’s congested roads.
Residential property will continue to boom despite
overhang and unsold units. According to NAPIC’s data,
the situation has improved amid market recovery. In the
first half of 2022, NAPIC recorded 34,092 overhang units
worth RM21.73 billion, down by 7.5% and 4.6% in volume
and value, respectively, compared to the period before.
However, the challenge of unsold units runs deeper than
market pricing. Even though many buyers are prepared to
invest in an asset, they have a tighter budget attributed
to rising cost of goods and net income loss during
the COVID-19 pandemic. As a result, buyers are more
selective in their purchases, with many considering an
accessible location and future property value before
deciding to buy.
demand for green buildings
Malaysia has committed to cutting its carbon intensity
by 45% by 2030. Key approaches to reduce the
country’s carbon emissions include mainstreaming
climate resilience into urban planning and infrastructure,
optimising energy use and water consumption, and
adding green spaces.
Environmentally-conscious home buyers and companies
are already looking into investing in green buildings. Aside
from reducing environmental impact, green buildings can
also lower operational costs through efficient resource
use.
The demand and push for green buildings to reduce total
carbon emissions have also escalated in recent years.
In the future, we expect more development companies
to register and certify their green projects through the
country’s industry-recognised green rating tool, the Green
Building Index (GBI).
To date, there are 1,105 green projects registered with the
GBI, including townships, residences and industrial parks.
Of these projects, 625 have been GBI-certified. Notable
green projects include Queens Residences in Penang, an
integrated energy hub in Kidurong Industrial Area, and an
IKEA distribution centre in Port Klang.

randstad.com.my

use of technology and automated processes

the race for new talent

There is increasing use of the Industrialised Building
System (IBS) technique and technology in the
construction industry to assist in better design, fast-track
development timelines, optimise resources as well as
reduce errors.

A diminishing talent pool continues to plague the
construction industry, and companies scramble to hire
fresh talent to fulfil project obligations.

To support companies’ human capital development, the
Construction Industry Development Board (CIDB) Malaysia
offers IBS Programmes to properly train and upskill
professionals such as architects, engineers and surveyors
involved in construction projects.

The number of local graduates needs to increase to
cater to Malaysia’s high demand for construction. While
there were 5.61 million graduates in 2021, they were not
all seeking employment in construction. The number of
graduates outside the labour force (841,300) far exceeds
the estimated shortage of workers in the construction
industry (550,000).

Aside from IBS, other advanced technologies, such as
drones and 3D modelling, are used for accurate mapping
and building design to assist property developers in
making better decisions.

The key here is to encourage fresh graduates and other
junior candidates to consider construction as a viable
career option rather than view it as a semi-skilled or lowskilled occupation.

In Malaysia, drones can inspect buildings and survey job
sites, while 3D modelling visualises building projects so
workers can virtually check construction progress without
going on-site. Robotics like Boston Dynamic’s Spot
will also gain more interest as companies seek greater
efficiencies while protecting the health and safety of their
workers in dangerous environments.

Students need to be educated from a young age that
high-value roles exist in the construction sector, including
those of architects, engineers, technicians, and project
managers, just to name a few.

While these advanced technologies automate
construction processes, they do not threaten jobs since
job growth would more likely offset job losses due to
automation. The World Economic Forum (WEF) projects
that the midpoint automation scenario will result in
additional labour demand of 1.5 million net new jobs
worldwide.
All these technologies do for the sector is make life easier
for existing workers by taking over the menial, labourintensive work and helping them deliver high-quality
performance, especially if we upskill them to do their jobs
better.

Furthermore, technological developments will also create
new in-demand jobs that need to be integrated into the
industry framework, which could be exciting for the next
generation to chart.
Organising school tours and offering internships
before graduates join companies might attract them to
construction roles. The Malaysian Government is now
also giving serious attention to STEM education (science,
technology, engineering, and mathematics education) to
produce a skilled workforce ready for the Fourth Industrial
Revolution (I4.0).
Specific to the construction industry, large organisations
with resources, huge book orders and robust succession
planning succeed in implementing effective hiring
strategies. Small to medium-sized construction firms
with no such resources can still compete and attract top
talent with strong employer branding, diverse projects,
meaningful benefits and continuous upskilling.
For flexibility in cost control and resource planning,
many companies also seek new talent on a project basis.
However, there is still a strong preference for permanent
roles among talent who are seeking better job and income
stability.
Companies must implement a different talent
engagement strategy to attract project workers. Besides
the opportunity to work on exciting projects under 12- to
24-month employment contracts, companies can also
promote training programmes, completion bonuses
and equal healthcare benefits. Following performance
measurements, the potential to convert into a full-time
staff would also be highly attractive to talent.

2023 Job Market and Salary Trends Malaysia

randstad.com.my

in-demand roles in construction
Given the uptick in domestic infrastructure development,
there will be massive demand for talent to jumpstart and
complete these projects. Some of the most in-demand
positions that many companies are hiring for include:
•

electricians and electrical engineers

•

construction project managers

•

civil engineers

•

equipment operators

2023 Job Market and Salary Trends Malaysia

randstad.com.my

2023 talent expectations.
compensation and benefits

projects and learning opportunities

Many job seekers in the construction sector have an acute
knowledge of the lack of talent in the market. Therefore,
most would only consider a job opportunity with a higher
remuneration package.

Talent in the construction sector seeks to develop
more comprehensive portfolios through different
project exposures and experiences. Most construction
professionals work on similar projects throughout their
careers, hence new developments present unique
opportunities for them to take on other types of projects.

While compensation and benefits have been relatively
stagnant over the past few years, especially with the
COVID-19 pandemic, things are starting to change. We
now see companies open to paying 15% to 30% more to
secure the right talent.
While this is a significant bump in pay grade in a
traditional sector like construction, we remain confident
that employers will be able to meet current salary
expectations. As the economy grows, project values also
increase and correspondingly, budgets should increase to
meet talent’s rising salary expectations.
Besides salary, there is also the question of work flexibility
that construction firms cannot offer. This poses a
challenge as younger talent who desire flexibility would
change industries to work in professional services instead,
further depleting the workforce pool that construction
firms can access.
Companies are, therefore, compensating for the lack
of work flexibility in other ways to maintain a positive
employee experience and support employees’ work-life
balance. For instance, many organisations are arranging
more employee engagement activities for their staff
to come together and celebrate milestones. Some
companies also offer shorter working hours or more paid
time off so their employees can have more personal time
for a balanced work life.
Another area where employers can improve is health and
safety. Ensuring a safe and healthy work environment in
construction to reduce workplace injuries begins with
training. When companies train employees to work and
respond appropriately in dangerous environments, they
are less likely to get hurt. They can focus more on their
jobs, with the assurance that they will be safe to go home
to their families.

2023 Job Market and Salary Trends Malaysia

Aside from high-rise buildings or shopping malls,
talent can now work on data centres or highly digitised
manufacturing plants. This exposure will help companies
nurture all-rounded employees, making it easier for
employers to shift resources flexibly based on market
needs and business focus.

win with employer branding.
In this tight construction labour market, it is crucial to
maintain a positive employer branding to attract top
talent, retain current employees and remain competitive.
a positive employee experience begins at first contact
during the job application process
Employers should ensure that they respond to every
candidate’s application, regardless of the outcome or
talent choice they make internally. Our experience has
shown that this level of transparency and proactivity
builds trust, which would help companies establish a
credible employer brand to attract future talent.
With the sea of construction companies vying for the
same talent pool, well-crafted job advertisements let
candidates know your company is actively hiring and
provide a platform to showcase your brand identity and
values.
Job advertisements should be easy to find online, simple
to understand, and highlight key job and employee
benefits. That way, it will be easier for candidates to
decide whether they want to work for you instead of
your competition. Having a detailed and accurate job
advertisement is one of the first steps towards attracting
quality candidates.

randstad.com.my

salary snapshot.
roles.

years of
experience

low

medium

high

engineer + QS

-

3,000

4,500

6,000

safety manager

10

7,000

10,000

15,000

QA/QC manager

10

7,000

10,000

15,000

construction manager

5

8,000

10,000

13,000

planning manager

10

9,000

14,000

20,000

contract manager

10

9,000

13,000

17,000

project manager

10

9,000

14,000

18,000

project director

20

20,000

27,000

35,000

general manager

20

25,000

30,000

40,000

chief executive officer

30

35,000

42,000

50,000

Figures are in MYR and based on a basic monthly salary of a permanent role (not including AWS or fixed/variable bonus)

2023 Job Market and Salary Trends Malaysia

randstad.com.my

about us.
Randstad is one of the world’s largest recruitment and HR services
providers. With operations located across Hong Kong SAR, mainland China,
Singapore, Malaysia, India, Japan, Australia and New Zealand. Randstad
Malaysia specialises in both permanent and contract recruitment (under
Randstad Talent) and helps organisations across industries find the best
talent in accounting & finance, construction, property & engineering, human
resources and business support, information technology, sales, marketing &
communications, as well as supply chain & procurement.
Human connection is at the heart of our business. Our personal approach,
supported by state-of-the-art technology, is what sets us apart in the world
of work. We express this with our brand promise: Human Forward.

Visit us at randstad.com.my for more information.

2023 Job Market and Salary Trends Malaysia

randstad.com.my

